In this lecture, we are going to learn how you can execute Lambda or any other service for that matter,
from Jenkins.
These are the high level steps to execute any service from Jenkins.
Find out the scale command to execute the service.
Attach necessary policy to the Jenkins agent so that Jenkins have the appropriate permission to invoke
the service.
Use the appropriate select command in the Jenkins file.
And finally, if the command gives the response back, gather the response.
For this example, we are going to execute a w s lambda.
A w s lambda is a very popular W service which can run code without managing any servers, whether physical
or virtual.
A w s lambda is highly available, scalable, and you only pay for use.
So if your lambda is not executing, you do not pay anything.
Some of the good use case for lambda are backend of arrest API or even driven architecture to work lambda
with Jenkins.
Some of the use cases can be if you want to run some integration tests using Lambda, you could do that.
Or perhaps the Jenkins job failed and you want to notify multiple groups and one to insert some record
into a database so you can invoke the lambda from Jenkins job for particular conditions.
Now let's do step one.
We need to find the SQL Command to find out how to invoke a lambda.
So I'm going to show you how to do that so that you can mimic this for all the services as needed.
So I'm just going to Google invoke A s lambda cli and the first link should be it.
Similarly, if you want to invoke a S3 bucket command or some other command, you can simply Google
that.
So let's click invoke.
So this is for W lambda and the command is invoke if we scroll down.
So this is the syntax.
So W lambda invoke and then dash dash function name.
All right, so now we have the command.
Next thing we need to do is attach the policy to the Jenkins agent.
In our case, Jenkins is running on EC2.
Specifically, they are easy to with the name Jenkins.
To find out the IAM role attached to the AC to we go to the security tab and then click the IAM role
and then it displays the permission.
As you could see, it doesn't have the permission to invoke Lambda to attach permission, click add
permission and then attach policies.
And then in the search, search lambda.
There are two types of policies.
One is customer managed, another one is less managed.
So I'm going to click this type icon so that we get data with managed policies.
For Lambda, we need to select this as lambda role, which allows invoking any lambda function.
Note that this very popular Lambda Basic execution role is not to invoke lambda.
Rather, this is lambda basic execution role policy is attached to the role to the lambda.
We are looking for a policy which can be attached to the ESI too, which allows us to invoke Lambda.
This other role create the log in cloud, watch anywhere.
Select this lambda role.
And again for other services, you need to find the similar, similar policy.
Scroll down, click attach policies.
All right.
Our Lambda role is attached to the AC two role where Jenkins is running.
And let's say for this example, to keep it fun, I'm running this lambda called get bitcoin price and
this lambda call this URL which grabs the Bitcoin price from coindesk and then it passes the JSON and
grab the price in USD and then it shows the output price of the bitcoins and then it shows the price.
So if you want to test it out, I click test and this is the output response price of bitcoin is $47,286.
All right.
So now let's go to the Jenkins console.
Click New Item.
I'm going to name the job as execute Lambda zero on Pipeline Project.
Click.
Okay, scroll down for simplicity.
I'm not going to do this in GitHub by this point.
You folks already know how to grab the Jenkins file from GitHub repository, so I'm just going to select
Hello World and then I'm going to put my command here.
So SQL commands are the Linux command and we include Linux commands inside a SAGE statement.
And if we go back to the Lambda Invoke, so we have to put a W.
S Lambda Invoke and then dash dash function name.
That's what we're going to do.
NWS Lambda invoke dash dash function dash name.
And the name of the function is get bitcoin price.
I'm just going to copy this and I believe this command should give a response OC out file.
If you scroll down it's going to show some examples as well.
Here you go, lambda invoke function name.
You can pass a payload if needed, but this function doesn't take any payload, so I'm going to not
pass anything.
But we do want to save the response in this response, that JSON file or you can give any name for that
response output.
I'm going to give
response JSON and then we want to display.
The response just on file.
So here I'm going to create another step.
I'm going to name this as invoke lambda.
Copy the stage display output.
So display output will simply be cat command and then name of the output file.
So cat responds.
Jason Let's save this and click Build now.
All right, it failed.
So let's troubleshoot this.
This is good.
This is like live troubleshooting.
Click console output nws lamda invoke.
You must specify a region.
You can also configure your region by running it.
Configure.
All right, so on the ESI to where the Jenkins is running, we did not run a configure, but instead
what we are going to do is we are going to include the region option directly in the Jenkins file.
So let's go back to the configure.
So in my case, the region is US West too.
You can also find out the region from here on the top.
Right, you can click this arrow and it's going to show the region you are in.
Like I said, I'm currently in the US West to going back to the Jenkins file.
All right.
Does this region US West to click save?
Let's try again.
Build now.
All right.
It ran successfully.
Let's check out the output.
Console output.
So the job invoked the lambda, the status quo.
200 is good.
It executed the latest version.
You can also call the allies and stuff.
Just check out the documentation, how to call different kinds of lambdas.
And then I'm running cat response to JSON and it gave us the response price of bitcoin is 47,282 and
some USD into this debt.
So this is how you can run any command.
So if you need to execute a rest API or you need to trigger a step function and that's the function
can go do different steps.
It can do all that.
Alright folks, this is how you can invoke any service from Jenkins file.
That's it for this one.
I'll see you guys and gals in the next one.